hi my name is han founder and ceo of
gene ai
in this episode i'm going to introduce
you some basic concepts in gina
gina is an easier way to develop neural
search on the cloud
i often call it tensorflow for search if
you haven't tried genome before
you can install gina vale pi pi and run
gina hello demos to see examples on
fashion image search
chatbot and multi modality search
if you have installed gina you may want
to make sure it is the latest version by
using pip install
minus eugena gina is not a one-liner
or image search solution instead gina is
a universal framework
allows you to build deep learning
powered search on the cloud
as a framework gina is designed to be
universal
which means that it can solve all kinds
of new research problems
whether it is image to image search
semantic text search
question answering gina can handle them
all
regardless its media type
one of the major benefits of using gina
is saving time
gina provides a natural and
straightforward design pattern
for building your search solutions on
the cloud which
otherwise could take months
once onboarding with gina you don't have
to leave again
with gina you keep an end to end stack
ownership of your solution
avoid integration paid files with
fragmented
multi-vendor generic legacy tools
unlike other deep learning framework
which designed to be local
gina is designed to be distributed on
the cloud
so features like uncontainabilizing
distributing
shading asynchronizing rest grpc
websocket they work out of the box
finally gina builds many
state-of-the-art ai models
they are easily usable and extendable
with a pysonic interface
as a beginner you may encounter many new
idioms in gina
terms such as p pod driver
executor and flow those concepts are
important because they define what gina
is today
but fortunately you don't have to
remember all of them
think gina as a cake shaped with many
layers
top layer is decorations and then
frosting
fillings bottom layer is a crust
when eating the cake you can always
choose which layer you want to start
if you're a hardcore guy there's nothing
wrong to eat a cake bottom up
gina as a framework is all about
abstraction
abstractions at different layers and
then exposing the abstraction
as api to the users or developers
some high-level apis are public some
intermediate or low-level apis
are highlighted intentionally so
developers can stay focused
okay now let's start with the toughest
layer
the app the app is by far the highest
level concept in
gina it represents a new research
project that delivers end-to-end user
experience
for example the three gina hello world
demos can be called as the three gina
apps
as they deliver the full user journey
from indexing
to searching a typical gina app project
contains two types of sales files python
code
and yamlconfig the python file defines
the entrance point
as a customized logic the yammer config
defines a flow composition
as a configuration of each executor
flow is a high level concept in gina it
represents a sequence of steps for
accomplishing a task
if you have read and read me on github
then from gina import flow is probably
the first thing that you learned
you can add logic to the flow by using
add message
create parallelization using needs
method
once the flow is built you can open it
like open a file in python
and then fit data to it ginaflow is
fully decentralized
and can be fully distributed on the
cloud you can simply distribute a part
of the flow
by setting host to a remote address you
can also containerize a flow
either partially or completely
besides building a flow from python you
can also build a flow from a yama config
this creates a separation between the
code base and the configuration
which could be extremely useful when
conducting a b
test part
is a cloud native container for the
algorithm
it is also the basic unit in the flow so
when you code flow.add message
you are basically adding parts to the
flow
part allows you to customize its
behavior on the cloud
it offers features such as scaling smart
routing
decentralizing parallelization and
containerization
when you visualize a flow in jupiter
notebook or google collab
each block in the graph is basically a
part
executor is algorithm unit in gina if
you are a machine learning engineer or
researcher
this will be the main interface you want
to work with
in gina we have provided hundreds of
classic
and state-of-the-art executors covering
pre
and post-processing indexing ranking and
encoding
these executors are put into different
subclasses
namely segmenter ranker
encoder crafter classifier
indexer and evaluator
but they all come from the same parent
if you want to introduce new algorithm
to gina you can simply create a new
executor class
by inheriting from the existing
executors
and without worrying too much about the
global picture
you can stay very focused on writing the
algorithm itself
given the input define your own logic to
generate the expected output
just like when you write standard load
numpy or tensorflow code
driver is a translation layer between
gina data type
and python or non-pi data type
it makes the executor agnostic to data
type and
network without the driver
you will need to convert pass extract
back and forth between the genera data
type
and the numpy data type
you can define the executor's behavior
under the network request
using drivers it basically says
while receiving request x please call
the executor and do y
you may wonder how can your algorithm
directly handle the request accident
that's exactly the purpose of the driver
as an algorithm developer
driver is invisible to you and you don't
have to worry about it
in general executor and driver are a
good couple
they work together and serve as a logic
layer in gina
document is a primitive data type in
gina
it appears everywhere from input to the
output
all the way through the flow you can
compare document of gina
to nd array of numpy or tensor of
tensorflow document is also a powerful
container for multimedia data
you can store text image audio and the
array
inside the document genus document can
be recursive
in two directions a document
has its nearest neighbors and neighbors
can have their own nearest neighbors
this is considered as high order matches
in gina
on the other direction a document can be
divided into sub-documents
and the sub-document can be further
segmented into finer granularities
this rich structure allows gina to
represent complex document
with hierarchies and model modalities
i hope this episode has explained you
some basic concepts in gina
if you want to learn more about gina
please follow us on github
read the docs or join our slack channel
in the next episode
i will talk more about gina flow apis
and their usages
so stay tuned and happy searching
you